Use case RAG LLMOps (#2994)
astronomer/docs: learn/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance.md

### Project overview

This project consists of an automated incremental ingestion pipeline defined in an Airflow DAG and a Streamlit application.

The [`finbuddy_load_news`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/dags/ingestion/finbuddy_load_news.py) DAG ensures that the correct Weaviate schema is created and subsequently ingests news articles from Alpha Vantage and Spaceflight news in parallel sequences of tasks. The ingestion pipeline consists of tasks querying an API, scraping the text of the news articles, chunking the content, creating embeddings and loading the data into Weaviate.

![Graph view of the finbuddy_load_news DAG showing Weaviate schema handling and two parallel ingesting pipelines, one for financial news from Alpha Vantage, the other for space news from Spaceflight news.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance_incremental_dag.png)

> The code for the Streamlit application can be found in [`streamlit/streamlit_app.py`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/include/streamlit/streamlit_app.py). This app prompts the user to ask a question about the current financial outlook and uses the question to find relevant news articles for an augmented prompt to GPT-4. The resulting answer is displayed to the user alongside the sources used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code for the Streamlit application can be found in [`include/streamlit/streamlit_app.py`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/include/streamlit/streamlit_app.py). This app prompts the user to ask a question about the current financial outlook and uses the question to find relevant news articles for an augmented prompt to GPT-4. The resulting answer is displayed to the user alongside the sources used. 
```

> ![Screenshot of the streamlit app showing the prompt field and two sliders, one for number of relevant article chunks retrieved, one to adjust the certainity.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance_streamlit_part_1.png)

Reviewer: Is it possible to zoom in on these screenshots so the text is bigger?

![Screenshot of the streamlit app showing an example answer of the application.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance_streamlit_part_2.png)

![Screenshot of the streamlit app showing the sources that were incorporated in the augmented prompt displayed below the answer.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance_streamlit_part_3.png)

> #### Development DAGs

Reviewer: Seems like this section should be under `Project Code`, instead of `Project overview`?

> The [`finbuddy_load_pre_embedded`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/dags/ingestion/finbuddy_load_pre_embedded.py) loads a set of pre-computed embeddings of news articles retrieved from a local `.parquet` file into Weaviate as an easy way to test and adapt the pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`finbuddy_load_pre_embedded`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/dags/ingestion/finbuddy_load_pre_embedded.py) DAG loads a set of pre-computed embeddings of news articles retrieved from a local `.parquet` file into Weaviate as an easy way to test and adapt the pipeline.
```

![Graph view of the finbuddy_load_pre_embedded DAG showing Weaviate schema handling and one task to ingest pre-calculated embeddings of news articles.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance_pre_embedd_dag.png)

> The [`create_schema`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/dags/create_schema.py) DAG exists as convenience DAG in a development environment to delete all data from Weaviate and create a new schema. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`create_schema`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/dags/create_schema.py) DAG is designed for development environments to delete all data from Weaviate and create a new schema. 
```

#### `finbuddy_load_news` DAG

The [`finbuddy_load_news`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/dags/ingestion/finbuddy_load_news.py) DAG contains all tasks necessary to automatically and continually ingest new news articles into Weaviate. It is scheduled to run everyday at midnight UTC.

The first task of the DAG will check if the Weaviate instance from the `WEAVIATE_CONN_ID` connection ID contains a schema with the same definition as the schema provided to `class_object_data` parameter. The schema for the news articles contains fields for metadata such as the `url`, `title` or `source`. You can find the full schema at [`include/data/schema.json`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/include/data/schema.json). 

> The WeaviateCheckSchemaBranchOperator that is being used is an operator capable of [branching](airflow-branch-operator.md) the DAG into two paths, depending on whether the schema already exists. If the schema already exists, the DAG will continue with the `schema_already_exists` task, skipping schema creation. If the schema does not exist, the DAG will continue with the `create_schema` task, creating the schema before continuing with the ingestion pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WeaviateCheckSchemaBranchOperator [branches](airflow-branch-operator.md) the DAG into two paths depending on whether the schema already exists. If the schema already exists, the DAG will continue with the `schema_already_exists` task, skipping schema creation. If the schema does not exist, the DAG will continue with the `create_schema` task, creating the schema before continuing with the ingestion pipeline.
```

    follow_task_ids_if_true=["schema_already_exists"],
    follow_task_ids_if_false=["create_schema"],
)
```

![Start of the graph view of the finbuddy_load_news DAG showing the branching between `schema_already_exists` and `create_schema`.](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance_schema_part.png)

The task creating the schema is defined using the WeaviateCreateSchemaOperator with the schema definition being retrieved from [`include/data/schema.json`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/include/data/schema.json).

```python
create_schema = WeaviateCreateSchemaOperator(
    task_id="create_schema",
    weaviate_conn_id=WEAVIATE_CONN_ID,
    class_object_data="file://include/data/schema.json",
)
```

After the schema is ready to take in new embeddings the tasks defining ingestion paths for different news sources are created in a loop from a list of dictionaries containing task parameters for each news source. This structure allows you to easily add more sources without needing to change the code of the DAG itself. 

Each news source is given a `name` and a set of `extract_parameters`:

> - the function needed to extract information from the news source `extract_function`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The function needed to extract information from the news source `extract_function`.
```

> - the `start_time` which determines how fresh we require news articles to be.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `start_time` which determines how fresh we require news articles to be.
```

> - the `limit` which is the maximum amount of articles to be fetched in a DAG run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `limit` which is the maximum amount of articles to be fetched in a DAG run.
```

> Since this ingestion pipeline is meant to run in an incremental way, the `start_date` is set to the `data_interval_start` timestamp of the DAG run, which will lead to each DAG processing the articles published in the time since the last scheduled DAG run. This date can conventiently be accessed in a [Jinja template](templating.md) in the format of a timestamp without dashes by using `{{ data_interval_start | ts_nodash }}`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this ingestion pipeline is meant to run incrementally, the `start_time` is set to the `data_interval_start` timestamp of the DAG run, which results in each DAG run processing the articles published in the time since the last scheduled DAG run. This date can be conveniently accessed in a [Jinja template](templating.md) in the format of a timestamp without dashes by using `{{ data_interval_start | ts_nodash }}`. 
```
Check me on the edits here. I was initially confused because I assumed `start_date` to mean the start date of the DAG, but seems like it's referring to the `start_time` param.

Author: Oh, yes, I seem to have confused myself here thanks for catching that 😅

:::

```python
news_sources = [
    {
        "name": "alphavantage",
        "extract_parameters": {
            "extract_function": extract.extract_alphavantage_api,
            "start_time": "{{ data_interval_start | ts_nodash }}",
            "limit": 16,
        },
    },
    {
        "name": "spaceflight",
        "extract_parameters": {
            "extract_function": extract.extract_spaceflight_api,
            "start_time": "{{ data_interval_start | ts_nodash }}",
            "limit": 16,
        },
    },
]

# ...

for news_source in news_sources:
    # tasks to ingest news
```

:::tip

You can add more news sources by adding a dictionary to the `news_sources` list with the same structure as the ones already present. Make sure to add the corresponding extract function to [`include/tasks/extract.py`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/include/tasks/extract.py).

:::

> For each `news_source` in `news_sources` five tasks are instantiated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each `news_source` in `news_sources`, five tasks are instantiated.
```

The first task makes a call to the respective news API to collect the article metadata in a dictionary and pass it to [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md). The function used in this task varies between news sources and is retrieved from the `extract_function` parameter of the `news_source` dictionary. Both, the `start_time` and `limit` for the API call are given to the extract function as positional arguments.

```python
urls = task(
    news_source["extract_parameters"]["extract_function"],
    task_id=f"extract_{news_source['name']}",
)(
    news_source["extract_parameters"]["start_time"],
    news_source["extract_parameters"]["limit"],
)
```

> All extract functions for different APIs are located in [`include/tasks/extract.py`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/include/tasks/extract.py). They follow the general structure shown in the `extract_spaceflight_api` function below. A GET request is posted to the API endpoint for article metadata after a the provided start time and the response is transformed into a list of dictionaries, each containing the information for one news article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All extract functions for different APIs are located in [`include/tasks/extract.py`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/include/tasks/extract.py). They follow the general structure shown in the `extract_spaceflight_api` function below. A GET request is posted to the API endpoint for article metadata after the provided start time and the response is transformed into a list of dictionaries, each containing the information for one news article.
```

from langchain.text_splitter import RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter

def split_text(records):
    df = pd.DataFrame(records)

    splitter = RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter()

    df["news_chunks"] = df["full_text"].apply(
        lambda x: splitter.split_documents([Document(page_content=x)])
    )
    df = df.explode("news_chunks", ignore_index=True)
    df["full_text"] = df["news_chunks"].apply(lambda x: x.page_content)
    df.drop(["news_chunks"], inplace=True, axis=1)
    df.reset_index(inplace=True, drop=True)

    return df.to_dict(orient="records")
```

After creating chunks of text, the last step of the pipeline is to ingest the data into Weaviate. You can either compute the vector embeddings locally using the `get_embeddings` function at [`include/tasks/embedd_locally.py`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/include/tasks/embedd_locally.py), or let Weaviate create the embeddings for you using [`text2vec-openai`](https://weaviate.io/developers/weaviate/modules/retriever-vectorizer-modules/text2vec-openai). This behavior can be toggled by setting `EMBEDD_LOCALLY` to `True` or `False` at the top of the DAG file. 

> The embedding task is [dynamically mapped](dynamic-tasks.md) over the list of dictionaries of news article chunks, creating one mapped task instance for chunk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The embedding task is [dynamically mapped](dynamic-tasks.md) over the list of dictionaries of news article chunks, creating one mapped task instance per chunk.
```

```python

EMBEDD_LOCALLY = True

# ...

if EMBEDD_LOCALLY:
    embeddings = task(
        embedd_locally.get_embeddings,
        task_id=f"get_embeddings_{news_source['name']}",
    ).expand(record=split_texts)
```

> If you choose to embedd locally, an open-source model specialized for financial information, [FinBERT](https://huggingface.co/ProsusAI/finbert), is retrieved from [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/). Note that local embedding will be much slower than embedding via a cloud based vectorizer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you choose to embed locally, an open-source model specialized for financial information, [FinBERT](https://huggingface.co/ProsusAI/finbert), is retrieved from [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/). Note that local embedding will be much slower than embedding via a cloud based vectorizer. 
```

        mean_tensor = last_hidden_state.mean(dim=1)
        embeddings = mean_tensor.numpy()

    record["vectors"] = embeddings.tolist()
    return record
```

The import task ingesting the vector embeddings into Weaviate uses the `@task.weaviate_import` decorator with an import function stored in [`include/tasks/ingest.py](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/include/tasks/ingest.py). One mapped task instance is created for each news article chunk.

```python
task.weaviate_import(
    ingest.import_data_local_embed,
    task_id=f"weaviate_import_{news_source['name']}",
    weaviate_conn_id=WEAVIATE_CONN_ID,
    retries=3,
    retry_delay=30,
    trigger_rule="all_done",
).partial(class_name="NEWS").expand(record=embeddings)
```

The ingestion function passed to the `@task.weaviate_import` decorator differs depending on whether the embeddings were pre-computed locally or not.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="localembedd"
    groupId= "project-code"
    values={[
        {label: 'Ingest existing embeddings', value: 'localembedd'},
        {label: 'Embedding during ingest', value: 'cloudembedd'},
    ]}>

<TabItem value="localembedd">

> For existing embeddings the `embedding_column` parameter of the dictionary returned by the ingestion function needs to be set to the name of the column containing the embeddings, in the case of this example `vectors`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For existing embeddings, the `embedding_column` parameter of the dictionary returned by the ingestion function needs to be set to the name of the column containing the embeddings (`vectors` in this example).  
```

```python
def import_data_local_embed(
    record,
    class_name: str,
    upsert=False,
    embedding_column="vector",
    uuid_source_column="url",
    error_threshold=0,
    verbose=False,
):
    df = pd.DataFrame(record, index=[0])

    df["uuid"] = df[uuid_source_column].apply(
        lambda x: str(uuid.uuid5(uuid.NAMESPACE_URL, x))
    )

    print(f"Passing {len(df)} pre-embedded objects for import.")

    return {
        "data": df,
        "class_name": class_name,
        "upsert": upsert,
        "embedding_column": embedding_column,
        "uuid_column": "uuid",
        "error_threshold": error_threshold,
        "verbose": verbose,
    }
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cloudembedd">

> If there is no `embedding_column` parameter defined the `@task.weaviate_import` decorator will assume that the embeddings are to be computed by Weaviate using 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is no `embedding_column` parameter defined, the `@task.weaviate_import` decorator will assume that the embeddings are to be computed by Weaviate using 
```

:::info Disclaimer

This is a proof of concept pipeline, please do not make any financial decisions based on the advice of this application.

:::

![A screenshot of the streamlit application created in this use case with a augmented GPT created answer for the question "What space technology should I invest in today?".](/img/examples/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance_streamlit_app_answer.png)

:::caution

The Weavitate Airflow provider is currently in beta and subject to change. After the provider is released, this use case will be updated and the provider source code will be available.

:::

## Before you start

Before trying this example, make sure you have:

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview).
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).
- An [Alpha Vantage API key](https://www.alphavantage.co/support/#api-key). A free tier is available.
- An [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/introduction). You will need to have an OpenAI account with credits to use the API.

## Clone the project

> Clone the example project from the [Astronomer GitHub](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance). To keep your credentials secure when you deploy this project to your own git repository, make sure to create a file called `.env` with the contents of the `.env_example` file in the project root directory. You will need to provide your own API key for the [Alpha Vantage API](https://www.alphavantage.co/support/#api-key) (`ALPHAVANTAGE_KEY`) and your own [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/introduction) in the `AIRFLOW_CONN_WEAVIATE_TEST` connection and as `OPENAI_API_KEY`.

Author: Ahhhh. I think I deleted that `will ...` structure in at least 3 other places while writing this use case, I'm aware I keep doing it, sorry! 😅

## Run the project

To run the example project, first make sure Docker Desktop is running. Then, open your project directory and run:

```sh
astro dev start
```

This command builds your project and spins up 6 Docker containers on your machine to run it:

- The Airflow webserver, which runs the Airflow UI and can be accessed at `https://localhost:8080/`.
- The Airflow scheduler, which is responsible for monitoring and triggering tasks.
- The Airflow triggerer, which is an Airflow component used to run deferrable operators.
- The Airflow metadata database, which is a Postgres database that runs on port `5432`.
- A local [Weaviate](https://weaviate.io/) instance, which can be accessed at `http://localhost:8081`.
- A local [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/) application, which can be accessed at `http://localhost:8501`.

Log into the Airflow UI at `https://localhost:8080/` with the username `admin` and the password `admin`. Run the `finbuddy_load_news` DAG to start the ingestion pipeline. Once the DAG has completed, use the Streamlit application, accessible at `http://localhost:8501` to ask for current financial insights.

## Project contents

### Data source

> This example collects URLs of news articles from two API sources, [Alpha Vantage](https://www.alphavantage.co/) for financial news articles and [Spaceflight news](https://www.spaceflightnewsapi.net/) for the latest developments in space. The full texts of these articles is scraped and stored in Weaviate. 

Author: The DAG could work, I think more specifically I'd say:

`A downstream task scrapes the full texts...` 

I'll change it to that :)

1. It allows for scraping of several articles in parallel, saving time.
2. If the scraping of one article fails, the pipeline will continue scraping the other articles in parallel and only retry the failed mapped task instance.

```python
texts = task(
    scrape.scrape_from_url, task_id=f"scrape_{news_source['name']}", retries=3
).expand(news_dict=urls)
```

The `scrape_from_url` function used in this task is defined in [`include/tasks/scrape.py`](https://github.com/astronomer/use-case-airflow-llm-rag-finance/blob/main/include/tasks/scrape.py) and uses the [Goose3](https://github.com/goose3/goose3) package. 

```python
from goose3 import Goose

def scrape_from_url(news_dict, skip_on_error=False):
    url = news_dict["url"]
    g = Goose()
    print("Scraping URL: ", url)

    if skip_on_error:
        try:
            article = g.extract(url=url)
            news_dict["full_text"] = article.cleaned_text
        except:
            print("Error scraping URL: ", url)
            news_dict["full_text"] = article.cleaned_text
    else:
        article = g.extract(url=url)
        news_dict["full_text"] = article.cleaned_text

    return news_dict
```

> After all news articles have been scraped the article texts get split up into smaller chunks of information using [LangChain](https://python.langchain.com/docs/get_started/introduction). Splitting the raw information will allow for more fine-grained retrieval of relevant information in the Streamlit application. 

Author: _puts another coin in the will-jar_

<Tabs
    defaultValue="localembedd"
    groupId= "project-code"
    values={[
        {label: 'Ingest existing embeddings', value: 'localembedd'},
        {label: 'Embedding during ingest', value: 'cloudembedd'},
    ]}>

<TabItem value="localembedd">

For existing embeddings, the `embedding_column` parameter of the dictionary returned by the ingestion function needs to be set to the name of the column containing the embeddings (`vectors` in this example).  

```python
def import_data_local_embed(
    record,
    class_name: str,
    upsert=False,
    embedding_column="vector",
    uuid_source_column="url",
    error_threshold=0,
    verbose=False,
):
    df = pd.DataFrame(record, index=[0])

    df["uuid"] = df[uuid_source_column].apply(
        lambda x: str(uuid.uuid5(uuid.NAMESPACE_URL, x))
    )

    print(f"Passing {len(df)} pre-embedded objects for import.")

    return {
        "data": df,
        "class_name": class_name,
        "upsert": upsert,
        "embedding_column": embedding_column,
        "uuid_column": "uuid",
        "error_threshold": error_threshold,
        "verbose": verbose,
    }
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cloudembedd">

> If there is no `embedding_column` parameter defined, the `@task.weaviate_import` decorator will assume that the embeddings are to be computed by Weaviate using 

Author: I did remove the line break (I think) but the rendered view did not change 🤔 I guess just one character too many probably 😅
